Chicken Biriyani Kerala Style

INGREDIENTS
Chicken - 1 1/2 kg
Basmati Rice - 1 kg
Curd - 2 tbsp
Onion (medium) - 3/4 kg (sliced lengthwise)
Onion (medium) - 3 nos for frying (sliced lengthwise)
Small onion - 15
Tomato (medium) - 3 nos (chopped)
Ginger - big piece
Garlic - 10 pods
Coriander leaves - 1 cup (chopped)
Mint leaves (Pudhina) - 1/2 cup (chopped)
Garam masala - 2 tsp
Turmeric powder - 1 tsp
Pepper powder (black) - 1 tsp
Red chilly powder - 2 tsp
Green chilli - 4
Salt - as needed
Pineapple - small piece (finely chopped)
Yellow colour - one pinch
Pine apple essence - 2 drops
Lemon juice - 1 tsp
Cinnamon - 4
Cloves - 5
Cardamom - 10
Ghee
Oil
Dalda
Cashew Nuts - handful
Raisins (unakka munthiri) - 10
For Marinade
Chilli powder - 1 tsp
Turmeric powder - 1 tsp
Pepper powder - 1/2 tsp
Egg - 1
Curd - 1 tbsp
Salt - to taste
Garam masala powder - 1 tsp

METHOD
1. Mix all the ingredients for marination along with chicken in a bowl. Keep aside for 1 hour.
2. Wash the rice.
3. Add salt, cloves, cinnamon, and cardamom to the water and boil it.
4. To the boiling water add rice and allow it to cook (until 3/4 cooked).
5. When rice is 3/4 cooked, add 1/2 tsp ghee and lemon juice into it. Mix well.
6. Switch off the gas and drain the rice and keep aside.
7. Fry cashew nuts, raisins and keep that also aside.
8. In a kadai heat oil and add sliced big onion (3) and fry till it become golden colour. Drain and keep aside.
9. Mix all the fried items (cashew nuts, raisins, onion fry) together. Keep aside.
10. Heat dalda or oil in a pan. Fry the marinated chicken pieces (till 3/4th), drain and keep aside.
11. Crush small onion, green chilly, ginger, garlic together. In a big kadai heat dalda and add this mix and fry it till light brown.
12. Then add sliced big onion and sauté till onion turn light brown. Add tomato, chilly powder, garam masala, turmeric powder one by one and sauté well.
13. Add fried chicken and small amount of water to this. Mix well and cook till the chicken gets soften.
14. Now have to bake the rice and chicken. Layer rice and chicken, seal, and cook on very low flame for 30 minutes.

Serve with salad and pickle

Note: The amount of water for cooking rice should be in good quantity and the vessel also should be big.
